---
id: pitch
title: "Reflection: Problem Pitch"
date: "12-10-2018"
tags: [honors]
---

In the beginning of October 2018, I chose the topic
**Cure for diseases (Cancer, aids, etc)** for
working on as a first step towards becoming a “Global Citizen
Scholar”. To be honest, I did not have a lot of prior
knowledge on interest in this field. I chose it because it was
the topic that I was “most comfortable” with. But about a
month later, I was glad that I made this decision.

I was working with two other students on this problem, I saw
them taking this with so much interest and sincerity, it made
me wonder “Why? How?”. Both of my partners had a lot of
knowledge, experience and contacts that they could put to use
for working on this problem. I know that because I have been
there. I have always taken up projects in fields of my
interest. This was probably the first time I had moved so far
from my comfort zone.

Then it hit me. We are not born as a “Global Citizen Scholar”.
To be one,you need to grow and develop. You need to step
outside your comfort zone and find new ways to help yourself
and the people around you. So I did. I started doing my
homework. I started looking into new developments in the field
of medicine and pharmacy. I also discussed potential interview
candidates with my partners. We had a brief and informative
talk with James Hester, a Roche Diagnostics sales
representative for Northern Indiana. The interview gave me new
insight into the whole process of medicine research, testing,
marketing and utilization. James gave us interesting knowledge
into the making and working of a cancer treatment, and how the
presence of a specific gene mutation can affect not only the
severity of the disease, but also decides whether the
treatment will work or not. He also told us about how the
pharmaceutical industry could change in the near future with
the advent of new technologies, which will help us better
understand the biology of these diseases.

Unfortunately, this is an area where getting involved is not
easy, as it requires a significant amount of knowledge and
experience to make a significant contribution. Or, atleast
that’s what I thought. James told us that getting involved in
this area is a lot easier than I think, because researchers
are constantly looking for interested students to hire as
interns and assistants, and they make a significant
contribution in moving the project forward.

This whole experience taught me why the Honors program wants
us to be “Global Citizen Scholars”, and what that exactly
means. It is not only about helping others, but also about
self-development (and that’s the part that appeals to me the
most because, you know, I’m selfish ;P). I know that there
will be challenges in this new mission, and I am ready to face
them.
